---
layout:     post
title:      The PEP8Naming Bear
date:       2018-07-15
summary:    Administrating proper naming standard with a bit of magic
categories: blog gsoc
---

<p class="heading">What are PEP's?</p>
<p class="content">
PEPs are Python Enhancement Proposals, and they describe and document
the way python language evolves. It provides with information of any new
feature that has been implemented to the python community. They often dictate
any design decision that have gone into python.
PEP's are classified into three categories:  
<p>

<p class="content">
<dl>
<dd><span class='highlight'>Standards Track</span>: They basically describe
any new feature that has been implemented in python.</dd>
<dd><span class='highlight'>Informational</span>: They notify any issue or
general guidelines to be followed. For eg a PEP specifying python naming
convention is a Informational PEP.</dd>
<dd><span class='highlight'>Process</span>: They are like Standard Track PEP but
might not be related to python language. It could even be a recommendation
that cannot be ignored unlike Informational PEP's.</dd>
</dl>
</p>

<p class="heading">A shallow dive into PEP8</p>
<p class="content">
PEP8 provides a general coding convention that should be followed while
writing in python. The level of indentation to be kept, the maximum line length,
file encoding scheme, use of comments, naming conventions to be followed and a
lot more is convered up in here. In order to read more about it you can check
out <a href='https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/'>PEP8 documentation</a>.
<p>

<p class="heading">What does PEP8NamingBear do?</p>
<p class="content">
Some might think that this is just another plugin that asserts if PEP8 naming
standard have been followed or not. What's so special about this? Do we even
bother to read further?
</p>
<p class="content">
The answer to what makes it apart from other plugins is
that it not only checks your code but also visits python doctests and inspects
it too. In my previous post I talked about how pyflakes enhanced AST is capable
of analysing code with code i.e doctests. Thus utilizing that feature this
bear is designed. Thus it not only throws any naming violation that occurs in
the file but also detects any violation in the doctest.
</p>

<p class="heading">What are the errors detected by PEP8NamingBear</p>
<p class="content">
A quicklist describing violations detected by the bear:
<ul>
<li>constant imported as non constant</li>
<li>lowercase imported as non lowercase</li>
<li>camelcase imported as lowercase</li>
<li>camelcase imported as constant</li>
<li>class names should use CapWords convention</li>
<li>function name should be lowercase</li>
<li>argument name should be lowercase</li>
<li>first argument of a classmethod should be named 'cls'</li>
<li>first argument of a method should be named 'self'</li>
<li>variable in function should be lowercase</li>
<li>function name should not start or end with '__'</li>
</ul>
</p>

<p class="heading">Future scope of PEP8NamingBear</p>
<p class="content">
PEP8NamingBear is a detection bear. Thus, it only detects violations
and provides no suggestions. A fixes version of PEP8NamingBear will be really
powerful to allow users to automatically fix there mistakes. This task is not
as easy it sounds because along with changes to the point of definition, changes
to every point of usage also needs to be done.
</p>

<style>
.heading {
    color:#c62828;
    font-size:1.5em;
}

.content {
    text-align:justify;
    background: #ffffff;
}

a.hyperlink {
    color:#b71c1c;
    text-decoration-color: red !important;
}

a.hyperlink:hover, a.hyperlink:active {
    color:#c51162;
    text-decoration-color: red !important;
}

pre {
  font-size:0.9em;
}

.highlight {
  color: #c62828;
  font-family: Optima, sans-serif;
}
</style>
